So we got certain routes on our back and to be precise the route for creating a new place for updating
a place and for deleting a place which should be protected.
Which means you shouldn't be able to send the request to them if you're not authenticated.
If you don't have a valid token now how can we ensure that no request without a token or without a valid
token I should say can reach these free routes.
Well we can add a middleware in front of them.
We can add a middleware in front of them which ensures that requests have to have a token.
If we use ruder use here we can add a middleware to any request that reaches this middleware.
Now keep in mind that requests in the end travel through your middleware from top to bottom in your
files.
And if we add a middleware here we therefore ensure that these first two requests here are open to everyone.
And that actually should be fine here.
I'm fine with returning place data to everyone.
But then once a request didn't make it into this or this route it encounters this middleware.
And here we can then do something to for example sent back an error response if the request has no valid
token.
So a request without a valid token will never reach the bottom roots here because it will always be
handled by this middleware.
That is the plan.
So we need to write a middleware here which checks an incoming request for a valid token.
And if the token is invalid it will send back a response.
And it will block the request from continuing its journey to the other routes.
This is how we could protect these bottom three routes here.
So the only missing piece at this point is a middleware that helps us do that.
And for that I will create a new file in the middleware folder which I'll just name off or check dash
off J.S. in any year we'll write all the logic to validate an incoming request for its token.
So in the end here I want to export a function.
Right.
Because a middleware is a function as you learned of function which gets this request.
Object is response object.
And this next function here and then here we want to check whether we have a token and not just whether
we have a token but if it's a valid token.
So first of all we can extract our token from the incoming request.
And now the question is Where do we expect this token on the incoming request.
You could argue that it should be part of the request body but you might not always be protecting routes
that have a request body for example the delete request doesn't have a request body.
So the token couldn't be part of the request body here any get request wouldn't have a request body.
We're not protecting a get request in this application.
But in other applications you might be protecting such roads as well.
So the request body is not a great choice.
You could go for query parents instead query parents are these things in the U are L which come after
a question mark something like token equals and then your token that could be part of the U.R.L..
And that would be a valid way of sending a token.
But I personally am a friend of using headers.
This does not affect our you are L and therefore keeps it cleaner and a token really can be considered
metadata that is attached to a request.
So I really like the idea of encoding the token in the headers of the incoming request so we can access
the request object and there we will find a headers property.
This is automatically provided by express J Yes this is the end of javascript object where we've got
key value pairs where the keys are to headers and the values well are the values for these headers and
there we will find out all for ization header.
Now remember that earlier in the course in app J.S. when we worked on the course headers I allowed the
attachment of authorisation header.
Now here with a capital A.
But headers are actually case insensitive.
So here we're allowing the front end the client to add an authorization header.
And now I'm using this authorization header here again.
They're not case sensitive to extract data.
So I access does authorisation header and in there I expect to get my token.
However this header will not be authorization and then the token instead the convention is to have as
a value something like bearer token to indicate that this request basically bears such a token here
sort of token here as part of the string which is stored in the authorization header.
So we want to split the value in the authorization header on the whitespace on the blank.
So basically here on this whitespace and as a result we will get an array with two values the First
the value the first element will be this bearer string.
The second element will be our token.
So on the result of the split operation I can access the second element with index 1 because indexes
and JavaScript start at 0 in a race.
So this should be our token.
Now of course that token might not be found or it might be invalid.
So if we don't have this token if it's undefined if this fails then I of course don't want to continue.
Instead we know that we certainly have no valid request at this point.
So here we can create a new error a new age to the p error and for that I will import my age to be error
by requiring it from models HBP error and there as a message you could say authentication failed.
You can of course also provide a more detailed message and sent back a status code or 401.
For not authenticated basically.
And then here I call next and attach my error.
And I always returned us to ensure that no code thereafter executes.
Now the problem we also have here at this point by the way is dead.
When we split this.
If the authorization header is not set at all this would actually crash and generate an error instead
of just returning undefined for the token.
So we should actually all the Raptors with try catch here to catch any error or we might be having here.
So this should go into try and then actually we can send this error in catch in here where I check for
the token existence I just want to throw an error.
I just want to throw a new error whereas say authentication failed.
But that doesn't matter too much because in the catch block I generate a new error anyways so if dad
were handling two scenarios scenario one is that the authorization header isn't set at all and therefore
split fails and scenario 2 is that it succeeds.
But whatever we had in there doesn't give us such a token.
Now if we survived both cases.
So we do have a token the tokens still might be invalid.
So as a next step we need to verify the token and for this we can reuse this Jason web token package
so I'll imported here Jason web token and store it into JWT constant because this was the package we
used to generate the token.
It's all of the package we can use to verify a token.
So for this we can call JWT verify now to verify we pass our token and then as a second argument the
private key we was to generate the token.
So we have to use the exact same key we used in the user's controller to generate our tokens.
So make sure to copied from there and not introduce any typos because of course you can only verify
the tokens validity if you use the exact same private key.
Now this verify process will not return a boolean.
Instead it returns a string or an object.
It returns the payload that was encoded into the token.
So here we got our decoded token and from that payload we can therefore also get the user I.D. to which
just token longs because remember that when we created the token we store the user I.D. anti email in
the token so when we called verify in decoded tokens we got an object which has this user I.D. and which
has this email and now here we know at this point that if this didn't fail if this verification didn't
fail didn't throw an error or that the user is authenticated.
So at this point I also want to call next here and not add an error but instead allowed a request to
continue its journey so that it is able to reach any other routes thereafter that require authentication.
But I also want to add something to the request object.
I will add a user data property.
You can always dynamically add data to the request object like this and the user data.
I want to add to the request includes my user I.D. let's say which I get from the decoded token and
their user I.D. because again when we create the token we added a user I.D. to its payload.
So now every request there after will be able to use this user data object which is part of the request
object and gets that user I.D. we extracted in this middleware.
So we're doing two things here.
We're validating the token and once it is valid we let the request continue and we add data to the request.
Now if verification fails this will throw an error and therefore we'll make it into the catch block
this day of rest of finished authentication middleware.
And now my app crashed after saving because in places routes I have as empty malware.
But this year will now not stay empty instead here we can now use this finished middleware.
So back here in places routes let's import check off by requiring middleware check off so the middleware
function we're exporting here and here in you as I just point at check off I don't execute it because
this already is the middleware function.
Instead I just pass a pointer at this function to use so that this function gets registered by express
as a middleware.
And now with that any route after DESC check here.
So all these routes at the bottom are protected and can only be reached with a valid token.
I can already prove this.
If we go back to the front end and we try to authenticate here for one you see that this fails.
We could not log in because we created this user here earlier in the course and therefore it has its
plain text passwords stored in the database which can't be compared with the new decrypt hash algorithm.
But for example if I create a new user here pick an image like this here and then unused email address.
Now we sign up but we're not redirected the reason for that is that we changed the data we're returning
on sign up
we're no longer returning a user object which is what we expect on the front end though and they therefore
log in here in the end failed when we tried to extract the idea from the user object on a response which
is no longer there.
But since we don't do anything the error handler we didn't see an error for debt.
Note it's not a problem because this is an error we will have to fix.
As a developer anyways our return data changes and in general how we work with this authenticated user
changed nonetheless import this that you won't be able to send requests to the back end to the protected
routes now without a token.
And whilst I can show us here in the front end we can of course use postman for this here on postman.
I created a request to create a new place with some dummy data and if I click send here you see I get
back a four and one area authentication failed.
So this proves that this request doesn't even reach our protected route.
It's blocked earlier by our brand new middleware and that is exactly what should be happening.
So now with that let's work on the front and make sure we use that new return data that token and that
user I.D. which is returned and we then kind of store it on the front end and also attach it to requests
we send to the back end to ensure that we have access to the protected routes again.